Program Overview
Alchemix is your unified platform for saving, earning, borrowing, and fixed-term fixed-yield opportunities—all in one place. Built on years of iteration since launching the original self-repaying loan in 2021, Alchemix v3 brings all three pillars together with a smarter, more flexible design. The protocol allows you to:

Save and grow – deposit ETH or USDC and let our vault invest and earn yield across diversified strategies.
Borrow up to 90% LTV – access liquidity now while your collateral grows with yield and your leverage is reduced over time through scheduled redemptions. No interest rates to monitor, no price-based liquidations.
Earn fixed-rate yield – lock in predictable returns through fixed-term redemptions of alETH or alUSD.
There are a few elements to the system. First, there is the Meta Yield Token. This is a Morpho V2 vault with custom strategies and some custom admin roles. There is an ETH and a USDC vault for each chain.

The core system is based around the Alchemist/Transmuter. Alchemists mint alAssets, and accept MYT as collatearl. Each Alchemist has a single alAsset it can mint (alETH for ETH, alUSD for USDC). Each Alchemist can only accept a single MYT token as collateral (MYT ETH for alETH Alchemist). Each Alchemist has a single Transmuter paired with it, and each Transmuter is only paired with a single Alchemist.

The Transmuter’s role is to redeem alAssets. Users may deposit alAssets to the transmuter. After a fixed period of time, they may claim equivalent value (based on protocol assumption that 1 alAsset = 1 Underlying, ie 1 alETH = 1 ETH) of the MYT.

The Alchemist’s role is to accept the MYT as collateral, mint alAsset debt, and fulfill redemption obligations to the transmuter. When a transmuter claim is executed, the Alchemist reduces global system debt, and sends MYT from the alchemist to the transmuter user. Thus, when a redemption occurs, an individual Alchemist position will see both their collateral and debt reduced.

To ensure collateral will always be available for redemptions, the Alchemist employs an earmarking system. Essentially, the system will reserve collateral and debt from user positions for future transmuter claims (time-based, continuous). Earmarked collateral cannot be withdrawn from the system. The only way to withdraw earmarked collateral is to repay earmarked debt with external MYT tokens. Separately, non-earmarked collateral/debt may be repaid and/or withdrawn at any time (subject to LTV requirements).

The MYT strategies are meant to be priced based off of fundamental oracles, ie the backing of each strategy. This is meant to avoid unfair liquidations due to flash crashes. Additionally, the MYT is never unwrapped or wrapped with the Alchemist - this is why transmuter positions recieve MYT tokens at time of redemption, not underlying.

The MYT strategies have a dual-unwrap approach through contracts and dexes. When a better outcome is gained through a dex (vs wrapping), a dex is used. For unwrapping, if the contract unwrap is unavailable (due to a queue), a dex is used. Thus, the MYT may be worth 1 ETH from the Alchemist point of view, even if the unwrap value at that exact instance is 0.99 (due to one of the strategies having a withdrawal queue). For this reason, long-tail risk strategies should not be used in the MYT.

Known Issues
Description / Link
Smart Contract	Technically an individual could open numerous small positions at max LTV, hoping that they become eligible for liquidation so they can liquidate themselves and get paid from the feeVault for a net profit. However, the feeVault ONLY pays out when the alchemist is globally undercollateralized, NOT for liquidate individually undercollateralized positions when global collateralization is otherwise acceptable. This is an acceptable risk and therefore not considered in scope.
https://github.com/alchemix-finance/v3-poc/tree/immunefi_audit

Proof of Concept (PoC) Guidelines and Rules

In the web3 world, a Proof of Concept (PoC) is runnable code that demonstrates that a bug/vulnerability and impact are real without actually exploiting the vulnerability in a live environment.

In the web2 world, a PoC is a minimally or zero invasive demonstration that a bug/vulnerability is real and shows impact on the assets in question.

PoCs are required by almost all bug bounty programs on Immunefi. Whitehats can check the PoC requirements of each bug bounty program on Immunefi by looking at the text of the program page for the term “PoC” and by examining severity table. In this example case below, a PoC is only required for critical severity bug reports. 

This leads to some questions from whitehats: what are the key elements a PoC should have? What are the rules around web2 and web3 PoCs? What makes a PoC great? How can I securely publish and share my PoC? 

To answer these questions and find some useful templates for constructing your PoC, please view our Immunefi PoC Templates article.

PoC Guidelines and Rules 
Web2 PoC Guidelines: 
A web2 PoC is not necessarily runnable code. A video showcasing the attack is acceptable as a PoC, as long as it comes with a brief text explanation in the bug report about what is occurring in the video. For Video PoCs, a HTTP request must also be provided. Whitehats can upload their PoCs on YouTube as an unlisted video and share the link in the bug report.

Screenshots showcasing the final attack are acceptable as a PoC.

HTTP requests are acceptable as a PoC.

A command line or any programmable runnable code PoC is acceptable.

Taking over a subdomain and showing proof within the Web2 PoC Rules.

Taking over the external links within the in-scope assets and showing proof within the Web2 PoC Rules.

In general, all blackbox testing is allowed unless it takes down the application/website. In case of such, the whitehat must ask for permission from the project in the Immunefi dashboard first if the attack would take down the application/website.

Whitehats must comply with any additional guidelines specified by the bug bounty program the whitehat is submitting a bug report to.

If the project requests more information about the PoC for verification purposes and the whitehat refuses to provide more information, that PoC is considered invalid.
If whitehats do not follow the guidelines, their reports may be closed and the right to receive a reward revoked. 

Web2 PoC Rules:
Do not insert a malicious Javascript payload into a website. Instead, you must only insert harmless javascript code that doesn’t affect other users and any other functionality of the application. The insertion must also be done in a way that doesn’t disrupt the functionality of the website.

If you need to make an edit to a website to show that a vulnerability is real, make the most minimal edit possible such as HTML comments (which are not visible to others) so as not to be invasive. Your PoC shouldn’t affect the state of the website and disclose to the public that a vulnerability exists.

Do not upload or attempt to upload webshells. If you need to upload a file for your PoC, upload an empty or non-executable text file.

Do not engage in unauthorized disclosure, make changes, or access sensitive information beyond what is necessary to submit the report.
Violation of any of these rules will, in almost all cases, result in an immediate and permanent ban from the Immunefi platform. 

Web3 PoC Guidelines: 
Most projects, especially for smart contracts, require a PoC for submissions to be valid and in-scope. Without a PoC, it can sometimes be impossible to tell whether there’s any bug at all, or most importantly, whether there’s any impact. A well-written PoC makes it unambiguous that there’s a bug and that an impact is real. Once a project receives a submission with an excellent PoC, they are able to analyze, respond, and pay out a big bounty much faster. 
The smart contract PoC should always be made by forking the mainnet using tools like Hardhat or Foundry. If forking the mainnet state is not feasible, using the project’s existing test suite is an acceptable alternative. However, the test conditions must accurately reflect the state of the deployed code. If the conditions do not match, the project may request additional PoCs to ensure accuracy.

The PoC should contain runnable code for the exploit demonstration. Screenshots of code are not acceptable. The whitehat can choose any framework or language to write a PoC. The whitehat should mention all the dependencies, configuration files, and environmental variables that are required in order to run that PoC, as any other requirements to run the test.

PoCs should have clear print statements and or comments that detail each step of the attack and display relevant information, such as funds stolen/frozen etc.

The whitehat can upload the PoC containing all the configuration files directly to Google Drive and share the link in the submission on the Immunefi Dashboard.

Alternatively, if the PoC is simple enough that it doesn’t require any configuration files, then it can be shared in the submission itself by pasting out the code in the comment.

Additionally, the whitehat should also ideally determine and provide data on the amount of funds at risk, which can be determined by calculating the total amount of tokens multiplied by the average price of the token at the time of the submission.

Whitehats must comply with any additional guidelines specified by the bug bounty program the whitehat is submitting a bug report to. 
If whitehats do not follow the guidelines, their reports may be closed. 

Web3 PoC Rules: 
Do not test on public testnet or mainnet.
If you want to run a DoS attack to prove a vulnerability, you must ask for and receive permission from the project in the Dashboard before doing so.
Do not submit a partial or incomplete PoC.
Violation of any of these rules will, in almost all cases, result in an immediate and permanent ban from the Immunefi platform. 

Impacts in Scope
Proof of Concept (PoC) Requirements

A runnable PoC, demonstrating the bug's impact, is required for this program and has to comply with the Immunefi PoC Guidelines and Rules.

Build Commands, Test Commands, and How to Run Them

All tests for the Alchemists/Transmuters can be run at once if you specify the fork and block. Whitehats will need their own fork URL. The block number currently used for testing is:

Examples:

AlchemistV3: FOUNDRY_PROFILE=default forge test --fork-url --match-path src/test/AlchemistV3.t.sol -vvvv --evm-version cancun
Transmuter: FOUNDRY_PROFILE=default forge test --fork-url --match-path src/test/Transmuter.t.sol -vvvv --evm-version cancun
All MYT strategies: FOUNDRY_PROFILE=default forge test --match-path "src/test/strategies/**/*.sol" -vvvv --evm-version cancun
Asset Accuracy Assurance

Bugs found on assets incorrectly listed in-scope are valid.

Code Freeze Assurance

Code of the assets in scope is frozen while the program is live.

Duplicate submissions of bugs are valid. Duplicate submissions of Insights are invalid.

The project commits to keeping private all info related to bug findings until this program is over. This means the project will not leak info about any bug findings or planned bug fixes, including bug findings found independently by the project or from concurrent private audits.

Previous Audits

Alchemix’s completed audit reports can be found at - https://cantina.xyz/portfolio/f638950d-a8ad-4df8-a6ec-8b067e416d7b or in the github repository.
Unfixed vulnerabilities mentioned in these reports are not eligible for a reward.
All cantina audit items are resolved and all tests are passing, EXCEPT the below items. Reporting any of the below items are NOT IN SCOPE for this contest. All other bug findings in cantina would be valid reportings if still occurring:
3.1.8 - Devs did fix the calculation here but disagree that people putting money into the transmuter is a bad thing. They are technically adding backing to the system
3.2.2 - intended behavior
3.2.8 - UI handles this so intended behavior
3.2.15 - Incorrect. A user wouldnt be able to deposit into a new position twice in one block since they wouldnt know what the ID they were assigned until after the block is written.
3.2.21 - Intended behavior
Public Disclosure of Known Issues

Bug reports for publicly disclosed bugs are not eligible for a reward.

Technically an individual could open numerous small positions at max LTV, hoping that they become eligible for liquidation so they can liquidate themselves and get paid from the feeVault for a net profit. However, the feeVault ONLY pays out when the alchemist is globally undercollateralized, NOT for liquidate individually undercollateralized positions when global collateralization is otherwise acceptable. This is an acceptable risk and therefore not considered in scope. None currently known
Private Known Issues Reward Policy

Private known issues, meaning known issues that were not publicly disclosed, are valid for a reward.

Where might Security Researchers confuse out-of-scope code to be in-scope?

Fundamental Oracles

We are pricing strategies based on the fundamental backing, rather than dex price, whenever possible. This means there may be scenarios where the fundamental backing has a queue to access (such as the exit queue for wstETH). In these scenarios, as an example, 1 alETH in the transmuter would return 1 ETH worth of MYT, but that 1 ETH of MYT would not be accessible until the withdrawal queue clears, OR the user could sell the 1 ETH of MYT for < 1 ETH. Thus, the MYT market price may be < 1 ETH, which may bring the price of the alAsset < 1 ETH. This is intended behavior, as should the withdrawal queue clear the 1 ETH of MYT value would once again be instantly accessible and thus the alAsset would be redeemable for 1 ETH.

IF the price of the MYT drops below the LTV (say 1 ETH of MYT has a market price of 0.85 ETH) due to withdrawal queues, then it would be expected that arbitragers mint alETH to sell at > 100% LTV. However, so long as the value of the MYT these arbitragers collateralize returns to 1:1, there is no bad debt created in the system. Only a situation that returns permanent bad debt, even after MYT recovery, would be in scope (or a situation where the MYT is prevented from recovering).

Morpho V2 Vaults

The Meta Yield Token is a Morpho v2 Vault. The base Morpho v2 code is unchanged and not in scope. Only the implementation of the base code and associated wrappers/extensions are in scope. (Ie, only issues that propogate from the main v2 code and implementation into the in-scope contracts are in scope).

Interfaces, Unit Tests, Mock Tokens

Interface Definitions, Unit Tests, and Mock Tokens are not in scope unless the issues propogate to the actual logic of the in-scope contracts.

Is this an upgrade of an existing system? If so, which? And what are the main differences?

While some of the economic ideas of Alchemix V3 are closely tied to Alchemix v2, this is an entirely new codebase. The only carryover is that the alAssets that are currently minted by Alchemix v2 will be the same alAssets minted by Alchemix v3.

Where do you suspect there may be bugs and/or what attack vectors are you most concerned about?

Flash Loans: Alchemix v2 does not allow smart contract interactions, which means flash loans could never interact with Alchemix v2. Alchemix v3 does not have this restriction, thus attention paid to potential attacks that take significant capital (ie, flashloans) is appreciated.

Bad Debt and MYT Pricing: Any attack vectors that would create permanent bad debt are very high priority, due to pricing exploits, pricing manipulation of internal oracles, or otherwise in the Meta Yield Tokens. The internal oracle especially should be a point of focus.

Liqudations: Liquidations are unique in that they need to interact with earmarking, as the system’s highest priority repayment is to fulfill transmuter obligations. This means if a position is eligible for liquidation, it will first have all earmarked debt cleared early, and then a liquidation will only occur if the redemption did not bring the user to a safe LTV. Thus, an invariant is that a liquidation shall never take priority over a redemption. The multistep liquidation system, with partial liquidations, is also somewhat custom and should be paid attention to.

0x Matcha Swaps: Our ZeroXSwapVerifier (part of the dual unwrap/wrapping approach that uses both fundamental contracts and dex aggregation) heavily relies on implicit calldata parsing. We would like explicit effort put into the review that such in-place verification matches the 0x protocol logic and a malicious swap event cannot make it trough the strategy with manipulated tokens, senders, amounts, receivers, slippages etc

Earmarking: Redemptions are discrete - when someone claims their transmuter position, their alAsset is burned and they recieve collateral directly from the Alchemist. Vault users will see both collateral and debt decrease. However, earmarking is continuous - essentially ensuring that building up to the time a transmuter position is claimed, enough collateral is being “reserved” in the system to ensure that users are unable to withdraw collateral that will be necessary to fulfill redemption obligations to the transmuter. This requires a continuous accounting weighting / earmarking system. Any inaccuracies in this system could be considered a valid bug.

What ERC20 / ERC721 / ERC777 / ERC1155 token standards are supported?

ERC20 (throughout), ERC721 (transmuter, and enumerables used for alchemist NFT positions), ERC4626 (Meta Yield Token)

What addresses would you consider any bug report requiring their involvement to be out of scope, as long as they operate within the privileges attributed to them?

None (Ie, if trusted roles such as Alchemix DAO (Admin), 0xMatcha Aggregator, and Guardians are operating normally and a bug can occur, that would be in scope. Entering the wrong function inputs would NOT be in scope. Griefing would NOT be in scope.)

What addresses would you consider any bug report requiring their involvement be out of scope, even if they exceed the privileges attributed to them?

Any Alchemix DAO multisig (Admin)
0xMatcha Aggregator
Guardians
(These are all trusted roles, however if there was a valid exploit that could be executed for example only when the 0xMatcha Aggregator is down or has a temporary loss of service, that would be in scope. Loss of functionality of the contracts while the aggregator is down would NOT be in scope unless it could result in permanent loss of user funds or bad debt. The aggregator just “being down” is not in scope, there would need to be impact beyond temporarily reduced protocol functionality)

Which chains and/or networks will the code in scope be deployed to?

Ethereum, Optimism, Arbitrum, Base
What external dependencies are there?

Morpho v2 Vaults
OpenZeppelin
Permit2
0x Matcha Routing
Twap Pricing Mechanism
All yield strategies are dependent on the protocol they derive yield from
Are there any unusual points about your protocol that may confuse Security Researchers?

The earmarking and redemption system is unique. The purpose of earmarking is to time-weight the communal redemptions in the system
The liquidation system is unique, especially in how it interacts with earmarking.
What are the most valuable educational resources already available? (Ie. Documentation, Explainer videos or articles, etc)

https://keenanlukeom.github.io/alchemix-v3-docs/
https://keenanlukeom.github.io/alchemix-v3-docs/dev/alchemist/alchemist-contract
Resources related to: https://github.com/alchemix-finance/v3-poc/tree/immunefi_audit/src/strategies/mainnet

https://app.tokemak.xyz/pools/autoETH?breakdown=pools
https://app.euler.finance/vault/0xD8b27CF359b7D15710a5BE299AF6e7Bf904984C2?network=ethereum
https://app.morpho.org/ethereum/vault/0xE89371eAaAC6D46d4C3ED23453241987916224FC/yearn-og-weth
https://peapods.finance/lending/1/0x9a42e1bEA03154c758BeC4866ec5AD214D4F2191
https://app.euler.finance/vault/0xe0a80d35bB6618CBA260120b279d357978c42BCE?network=ethereum
https://peapods.finance/lending/1/0x3717e340140D30F3A077Dd21fAc39A86ACe873AA
https://app.tokemak.xyz/pools/autoUSD
Search by keyword
Critical
Direct theft of any user funds, whether at-rest or in-motion, other than unclaimed yield

Critical
Direct theft of any user NFTs, whether at-rest or in-motion, other than unclaimed royalties

Critical
Permanent freezing of funds

Critical
Permanent freezing of NFTs

Critical
Unauthorized minting of NFTs

Critical
Predictable or manipulable RNG that results in abuse of the principal or NFT

Critical
Unintended alteration of what the NFT represents (e.g. token URI, payload, artistic content)

Critical
Protocol insolvency

High
Permanent freezing of unclaimed royalties

High
Theft of unclaimed yield

High
Permanent freezing of unclaimed yield

High
Temporary freezing of funds for at least 24 hour

High
Theft of unclaimed royalties

High
Temporary freezing of NFTs for at least 24 hour

Medium
Smart contract unable to operate due to lack of token funds

Medium
Theft of gas

Medium
Unbounded gas consumption

Medium
Temporary freezing of funds for at least 1 hour

Medium
Temporary freezing of NFTs for at least 1 hour

Low
Contract fails to deliver promised returns, but doesn't lose value

Insight
Security best practices

Insight
Code Optimizations and Enhancements

Insight
Architectural decentralization

Insight
Documentation Improvements

Collapse
 View rewards
Out of scope
Default Out of Scope and rules
Smart Contract specific

Incorrect data supplied by third party oracles
Not to exclude oracle manipulation/flash loan attacks
Impacts requiring basic economic and governance attacks (e.g. 51% attack)
Lack of liquidity impacts
Impacts from Sybil attacks
Impacts involving centralization risks
All categories

Impacts requiring attacks that the reporter has already exploited themselves, leading to damage
Impacts caused by attacks requiring access to leaked keys/credentials
Impacts caused by attacks requiring access to privileged addresses (including, but not limited to: governance and strategist contracts) without additional modifications to the privileges attributed
Impacts relying on attacks involving the depegging of an external stablecoin where the attacker does not directly cause the depegging due to a bug in code
Mentions of secrets, access tokens, API keys, private keys, etc. in Github will be considered out of scope without proof that they are in-use in production
Best practice recommendations
Feature requests
Impacts on test files and configuration files unless stated otherwise in the bug bounty program
Impacts requiring phishing or other social engineering attacks against project's employees and/or customers

Insight Reporting

Insight reports may be reported to this program and require a PoC. Insights are rewarded according to Immunefi’s Standardized Competition Reward Terms.

Dispute Resolution

If there is any dispute over bug reports between projects and security researchers, Immunefi has final say on validity and severity based on the terms of this program.

Responsible Publication Policy

Immunefi will publish bug reports, earnings, and a leaderboard for this Audit Competition.
Security Researchers may publish their bug reports as well, but only after Immunefi has published the valid bug reports as part of the competition results.
Eligibility Criteria

Security researchers who wish to participate must adhere to the rules of engagement set forth in this program and cannot be:

On OFACs SDN list
Official contributor, both past or present
Employees and/or individuals closely associated with the project
Security auditors that directly or indirectly participated in an audit review of the code in scope (Such auditors may still participate in this program only if they receive project permission)
